
[Congressional Record Volume 159, Number 8 (Wednesday, January 23, 2013)]
[Extensions of Remarks]
[Page E53]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Printing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]




   HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY OF JAMES HOOD: A CIVIL RIGHTS PIONEER

                                 ______
                                 

                          HON. TERRI A. SEWELL

                               of alabama

                    in the house of representatives

                      Wednesday, January 23, 2013

  Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and pay 
tribute to the life and legacy of Dr. James Hood, one of the first 
African-Americans to attend The University of Alabama, who passed away 
Thursday, January 17 at the age of 70. Dr. Hood was a trailblazer in 
the quest for civil rights and equality. I am deeply saddened by his 
passing but I am comforted in knowing that his legacy will live on.
  Dr. Hood was born on November 10, 1942 in Gadsden, Alabama. He 
attended Gadsden public schools and he enrolled at the University of 
Alabama in 1963.
  On June 11, 1963, Dr. Hood along with fellow student Vivian Malone 
attempted to enroll at the University of Alabama. Upon his arrival to 
the Tuscaloosa campus, then Alabama Governor George Wallace physically 
blocked Dr. Hood from entering Foster Auditorium to register for 
classes. As the world watched, Gov. Wallace's efforts to block Dr. Hood 
and Ms. Malone were recorded in our Nation's history as ``The Stand in 
the Schoolhouse Door.'' Later that day, Dr. Hood, with the support of a 
federal court order and members of the Alabama National Guard, was 
eventually allowed to register for classes and pursue his degree.
  However, despite his bravery and courage, Dr. Hood's time as a 
student at the University of Alabama was short. On August 11, 1963, Dr. 
Hood left the University after numerous threats and constant 
harassment. He would later return to the University of Alabama in 1997 
to obtain a doctorate in interdisciplinary studies.
  After his short time at the University of Alabama, Dr. Hood went on 
to obtain a bachelor's degree from Wayne State University and a 
master's degree from Michigan State. Dr. Hood also studied at the 
University of London. He later served as deputy police chief in Detroit 
and as a chairman of the police science program at the Madison Area 
Technical College in Wisconsin before retiring in 2002. During his 
extraordinary life, Dr. Hood was also a devoted father to five children 
and nine grandchildren.
  Today, as we mourn the passing of this American hero, we are reminded 
of his sacrifices for our Nation. Dr. Hood's courage was a testament to 
his commitment to education and equality. On behalf of a grateful 
Nation, we honor Dr. Hood's personal sacrifices and commit to sharing 
his story with future generations.
  Today, ``The Stand in the Schoolhouse Door'' is remembered as a 
pivotal moment in the Civil Rights Movement. Dr. Hood's quest for 
educational equality served as a catalyst for the opportunities that 
many of us enjoy today. As a benefactor of Dr. Hood's contributions, I 
am humbled by this opportunity to further solidify his place in 
American history. As the first African-American woman elected to 
Congress from the state of Alabama, I know that my journey would not be 
possible without the contributions of foot soldiers like Dr. Hood. Let 
his life serve as a testament to the courage and strength of one 
individual's ability to change the trajectory of our Nation. On behalf 
of the 7th Congressional District, the State of Alabama and this 
Nation, I ask my colleagues to join me in honoring the life and legacy 
of Dr. James Hood.

                          ____________________



