
[Congressional Record Volume 160, Number 16 (Tuesday, January 28, 2014)]
[Extensions of Remarks]
[Page E123]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Printing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]




                   IN MEMORY OF DONA BARBOUR WORRELL

                                 ______
                                 

                        HON. RANDY K. WEBER, SR.

                                of texas

                    in the house of representatives

                       Tuesday, January 28, 2014

  Mr. WEBER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to remember a fellow 
Texan, Dona Barbour Worrell of Brazoria and Spring Branch who passed 
away Saturday, January 11 2014.
   Dona was the daughter of Susan Louise Poole and Dr. Joel Lane 
Barbour of Bay City, Texas. She was the youngest of two children. She 
was also the granddaughter of Thomas Jefferson Poole, the president of 
the Bay City Bank and Trust from 1909-1929.
   Mr. Poole owned a 5,000 acre ranch in Matagorda County, where 
Barbour spent a lot of her childhood. In 1929 Poole formed a 
partnership with Allen Ranch, creating the Allen-Poole Cattle Co. They 
shipped cattle by rail to Oklahoma and Kansas, and at its height, the 
Allen-Poole Cattle Co. shipped more cattle than any other ranch in 
Texas except for the King Ranch. The Poole Ranch was very much a part 
of her life and an integral part of her family.
   Dona attended Trinity University, where she met her husband, Thomas 
Alfred Worrell. The two were married in 1960. Shortly after their 
marriage, Tommy took a part in the movie, ``The Alamo,'' starring John 
Wayne.
   Dona's life ultimately leads her and her family back to Texas. They 
split their time between San Antonio and the Poole Ranch in Brazoria, 
Texas, where they owned and operated shows at various dude ranches.
   Dona touched the lives of many people, including close friends and 
famous Hollywood actors. James Drury, who is best known for his role in 
The Virginian as well as General Douglas MacArthur and his wife Jean, 
who arranged for Dona to attend a coalition at West Point, just to name 
a few.
   Dona is survived by her husband Tommy, (Thomas) Worrell; Son, Todd 
Worrell and spouse, Marty Worrell and children from a previous 
marriage, Daniel Lane Worrell, Dylan Thomas Worrell and Bethany Kirsten 
Worrell; Daughter, Heather Worrell and her partner, Kellye McKinna and 
their children, Thelen Lane McKinna-Worrell and Ella Kathryn McKinna-
Worrell; and daughter Sunni Worrell Duncan, her spouse, Daniel Duncan 
their children from a previous marriage, Austin Thomas Soward, Hunter 
Brian Soward, and Courtland Shea Duncan.
   She is preceded in death by her parents, grandparents, and brother. 
Dona was a strong Texan, deeply devoted to her husband and family, she 
will be greatly missed.

                          ____________________



